---
title: 100 days of code
draft: true
date: 2020-10-17T18:24:09.989Z
description: "My experience on the #100daysofcode challenge"
---
**Before**\
My Javascript fundamentals were okay but I struggled mostly with destructuring. Create React App was my one and only solution, I used Redux whenever I felt that props had to go somewhere beyond direct children and I was very new to React Hooks. Finally, I was struggling with structuring data in databases.

I came into the challenge with a fobia of databases. I recently ditched a project because I couldn't implement data relationships. Authentication was a pain for me, I have an irrational fear of getting hacked (yes, my little apps that nobody uses). Finally, forms in general. I tackled a few but realized later I still have a lot to learn. At least I'm not afraid to dive straight into the documentation and play with other people's code.
\
**After**\
During the 100 days, I landed a few freelance gigs. Having an active presence on Twitter boosted my confidence and exposed me to all sorts of ideas. I was genuinely surprised to find that the developer community is the opposite of what I had experienced on twitter so far. \
\
**Pros**

* Tracking my progress
* Keep myself accountable
*

\
\
**Cons**\
Twitter is social media. That comes with all the benefits of the dev community but with all the pitfalls of attention seeking addiction. My very first post had 120 views and I was thrilled! After a few weeks, if my posts that got 5 likes, I felt cheap.

### **New skills**

**React**\
**When I look back at the code I was writing at the beginning of the year, I get a headache.** I was using global states for no apparent reason and that made things awfully complicated. Thanks to Sara Vieira's book **Opinionated Guide to React**, I learned some great insights into organizing code and making more **re-usable components**. I actually forced myself to refactor a full application after reading the book.

**Gatsby**\
I've built almost everything during these 100 days using Gatsby.

**Wordpress**\
🎃  I had heard spooky tales about working with Wordpress and having to deal with the dreaded PHP. But nobody tells you that every project is different and you might find 🕸  even spookier things... like a huge plugin mess! 👻  I guess this story deserves a whole blog post, but the conclusion is that I'm not afraid of Wordpress anymore. I was able to tame the beast by turning it into a headless CMS using Gatsby.

**GraphQL**\
Here I go again, I swear I'm not getting paid by them. Gatsby forces you to use GraphQL from the start and makes it easy to understand what you're doing by using GraphiQL. It did take me a while to get comfortable with all the terminology but I'm glad I stuck with it. It's worth it!\
\
**AWS**\
I tried working with AWS for the first time in 2015 and it didn't go well. Back then my only resource was early [freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/) and the AWS documentation. I failed miserably and moved to Digital Ocean. \
This time around, my in was the **\#CloudResumeChallenge** that [@swyx](https://twitter.com/swyx) recommended me. It gave me a clear goal without giving away the recipes. This made me feel that my achievements were actually mine because i earned them by reading documentation and figuring out solutions.

\
Nextjs\
\
My new toolset\
Chakra UI\
Formik\
Stripe\
MDX\
\
**Fails**\
\
Typescript. I used it for this website and had a blast but when I started a project from scratch it took me forever to get a timer to work. \
React Native. I started playing with it but I felt like there were more important parts of React that I had to understand better before jumping into native.\
\
**What lies ahead**

**200 days? I don't think so**\
\
Honestly, it has been rough. Maybe it's because of the approach that I took or because stuff has been crazy this year in general. I felt that I needed to produce something visibly interesting every day and get at least one win a week. That was the effect social media had in me. After reading Swyx's book. I have a new perspective on the kind of content I want to produce. It's both a record of my progress and the kind of thing I would've wanted to read when I was struggling with these concepts.

What's next?
I started this challenge to prove to myself that I was able to learn in public and become a better developer. I still wan that for myself. I want to get better and learn more.

Here's my wishlist for the next couple of months.

I want to tackle proper test driven development. \
I want to contribute to open source projects. I tried during hacktober but I had too much on my plate.\
I want to round up this learning fase by properly learning data structures and algorithms.\
I want to finish the CloudResumeChallenge and that means getting the AWS cloud practitioner certification. 

\
**My plan**

Finally, I wan to speak naively about the way I want to pursue the next couple of months in my journey.\
\
I feel like I learned a lot about React thanks to Gatsby but I now must leave the nest and fly away. I want to explore NextJS for my next projects as it looks promising. Svelte feels like the future and and want to up the difficulty.\
I have been practicing my skills but I feel like I have to gulp down new concepts if I don't want to get stuck. I'll power through as much Scrimba and Frontend Masters as possible to strengthen my backend concepts. After that I'll go hard on the data structures and algorithms on books and youtube.

I'm thinking this would keep me busy at least 6 months. Hopefully things turn out better than I'm expecting. I'll be trying my best.